using/sandbox/windows.md, before:


# Windows sandboxing

## One-time setup

For sandboxing to work, the itch app needs to create a new account named
`itch-player`, by running the following commands:

```bat
net user itch-player salt /add
net localgroup Users itch-player /delete
```

The first command adds the `itch-player` user with a known password, and
the second command removes it from the `Users` group so that it doesn't
appear on the login screen.

As a result, the `C:\Users\itch-player` folder will be created, and that's
where game saves will go.

## Troubleshooting

If your game is broken by the itch.io sandbox on Windows, we recommend using
[Sysinternals' Process Monitor](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/processmonitor.aspx)
to see what the game is trying to access that it doesn't have permissions to.

You may need to filter by executable name for the logs to be readable (if someone
 wants to supply a tutorial article on this, they're more than welcome!)

The default sandbox policy should be more than enough to get most games running,
but if you run into an issue that you need help resolving, feel free to open
an issue on our [Issue Tracker](https://github.com/itchio/itch/issues)

## Frequently Asked Questions

### I have a new folder in C:\\Users\\, what gives?

This is necessary for the sandbox to function properly, since it runs games
as another user. It's a small price to pay for much-increased security, and
allows itch to protect all your personal files from malicious games that
would want to steal them.

### I lost my saves when enabling the sandbox

Fear not! They're still here, just in `C:\\Users\\yourself`, rather than
`C:\\Users\\itch-player`, which explains why the game doesn't find it anymore.

You can copy over your savefiles, if you know where they are, for example:

   * Original location: `C:\\Users\\leaf\\AppData\\Roaming\\com.unity.game`
   * New location: `C:\\Users\\itch-player\\AppData\\Roaming\\com.unity.game`

You'll also need to grant full access to this folder to the `itch-player` account,
by right-clicking on the folder in the Explorer, and setting the right permissions there.

Commit message:

Added entries in sandbox/windows. Windows no longer automatically creates a home directory for a new user, so a make directory and assign as home directory command was added, see line 12 and 13, as well as information on these commands on line 18 and 19

using/sandbox/windows.md, after:


# Windows sandboxing

## One-time setup

For sandboxing to work, the itch app needs to create a new account named
`itch-player`, by running the following commands in PowerShell:

```bat
net user itch-player salt /add
net localgroup Users itch-player /delete
mkdir C:\Users\itch-player
net user itch-player /homedir:C:\Users\itch-player
```

The first command adds the `itch-player` user with a known password, and
the second command removes it from the `Users` group so that it doesn't
appear on the login screen. The third creates a home directory for itch-player. 
The final command sets the directory as the home directory for 'itch-player'.



## Troubleshooting

If your game is broken by the itch.io sandbox on Windows, we recommend using
[Sysinternals' Process Monitor](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/processmonitor.aspx)
to see what the game is trying to access that it doesn't have permissions to.

You may need to filter by executable name for the logs to be readable (if someone
 wants to supply a tutorial article on this, they're more than welcome!)

The default sandbox policy should be more than enough to get most games running,
but if you run into an issue that you need help resolving, feel free to open
an issue on our [Issue Tracker](https://github.com/itchio/itch/issues)

## Frequently Asked Questions

### I have a new folder in C:\\Users\\, what gives?

This is necessary for the sandbox to function properly, since it runs games
as another user. It's a small price to pay for much-increased security, and
allows itch to protect all your personal files from malicious games that
would want to steal them.

### I lost my saves when enabling the sandbox

Fear not! They're still here, just in `C:\\Users\\yourself`, rather than
`C:\\Users\\itch-player`, which explains why the game doesn't find it anymore.

You can copy over your savefiles, if you know where they are, for example:

   * Original location: `C:\\Users\\leaf\\AppData\\Roaming\\com.unity.game`
   * New location: `C:\\Users\\itch-player\\AppData\\Roaming\\com.unity.game`

You'll also need to grant full access to this folder to the `itch-player` account,
by right-clicking on the folder in the Explorer, and setting the right permissions there.
