# Distributing Windows builds

## Ship a portable build

Instead of shipping an installer \(`MyGame_setup.exe` or `MyGame.msi`\), **just push the install folder with **[**butler**](https://itch.io/docs/butler).

> Seriously, please do. We'll do our best if you don't \(see [Compatibility policy](/integrating/compatibility-policy.md)\), but please do.

This includes the folder generated by engines like Unity, Unreal Engine 4, GameMaker, etc.

## Prerequisites \(Visual C++, .NET, XNA, DirectX\)

If your game depends the Visual C++ Runtime, the .NET Framework, the XNA  
Framework, DirectX or so, please look at the  
[Prerequisites](../prereqs/README.md) feature of the itch app - it can  
install those for your players before the first launc of your game.

## Don't bother with 64-bit builds

Unlike 64-bit Linux, 64-bit Windows will happily run 32-bit binaries. There might  
be some technical reasons for your game to require a 64-bit binary, in which case  
reading this page is probably a waste of your time and you should just apply the  
knowledge you already have.

## Supported installer types

Some installers allow _silent installation_. In this case, the itch app detects  
them and tries to silently install to the [install location](../../using/install-locations.md) specified by the  
user.

In particular, these installers are supported:

* InnoSetup installers
* NSIS installers
* InstallShield self-extracting archives \(some versions\)

Uninstalling games from the app will also attempt to run the uninstaller properly,  
but if it fails, will resort to wiping the installation folder, which the user  
would most probably do if the app didn't.

## Dependency hell, Windows-style

Figuring out what your app depends on is easier on Windows that it is on  
Linux, for example, but can still get tricky.

One way to solve it is to have a clean install of Windows in a virtual machine or  
another computer, and copy your game there: if it runs, you're fine. If it complains  
about some library, add it. However, this trial-and-error can take a while.

Instead, you could use a tool like [Dependency Walker](http://www.dependencywalker.com/), which will  
monitor the DLLs \(dynamic libraries\) that your application loads throughout  
its runtime.

